Data binding is one of the most significant and effective elements for creating communication between the DOM and the component. It makes designing interactive apps easier by reducing the need to worry about data pushing and pulling between the component and the template.

**There are Four types of Data binding in Angular:**

-   Property Binding
-   Event Binding
-   String Interpolation
-   Two way data binding

**Property Binding:** One method of data binding is called property binding. In property binding, we connect a DOM element's property to a field that is a declared property in our TypeScript component code. In reality, Angular transforms string interpolation into property binding internally.

**Event Binding:** Using event binding, you may respond to DOM events like button clicks and mouse movements. When a DOM event (such as a click, change, or keyup) occurs, the component's designated method is called.

**String Interpolation:** In order to export data from TypeScript code to an HTML template( view ), String Interpolation is a one way data binding approach. The data from the component is shown to the view using the template expression enclosed in double curly braces. The value of a component property is added by using string interpolation.

### Explain string interpolation and property binding in Angular.

-   String interpolation and property binding are parts of **data-binding** in Angular.
-   Data-binding is a feature in angular, which provides a way to communicate between the component(Model) and its view(HTML template).
-   Data-binding can be done in two ways, **one-way** binding and **two-way** binding.
-   In Angular, data from the component can be inserted inside the HTML template. In one-way binding, any changes in the component will directly reflect inside the HTML template but, vice-versa is not possible. Whereas, it is possible in two-way binding.
-   String interpolation and property binding allow only one-way data binding.
-   String interpolation uses the double curly braces **{{ }}** to display data from the component. Angular automatically runs the expression written inside the curly braces, for example, {{ 2 + 2 }} will be evaluated by Angular and the output 4, will be displayed inside the HTML template. Using property binding, we can bind the DOM properties of an HTML element to a component's property. Property binding uses the square brackets **[ ]** syntax.