https://javascript.info/localstorage

Web storage objects `localStorage` and `sessionStorage` allow to save key/value pairs in the browser.

What’s interesting about them is that the data survives a page refresh (for `sessionStorage`) and even a full browser restart (for `localStorage`). We’ll see that very soon.

We already have cookies. Why additional objects?

-   Unlike cookies, web storage objects are not sent to server with each request. Because of that, we can store much more. Most modern browsers allow at least 5 megabytes of data (or more) and have settings to configure that.
-   Also unlike cookies, the server can’t manipulate storage objects via HTTP headers. Everything’s done in JavaScript.
-   The storage is bound to the origin (domain/protocol/port triplet). That is, different protocols or subdomains infer different storage objects, they can’t access data from each other.

Both storage objects provide same methods and properties:

-   `setItem(key, value)` – store key/value pair.
-   `getItem(key)` – get the value by key.
-   `removeItem(key)` – remove the key with its value.
-   `clear()` – delete everything.
-   `key(index)` – get the key on a given position.
-   `length` – the number of stored items.

As you can see, it’s like a `Map` collection (`setItem/getItem/removeItem`), but also allows access by index with `key(index)`.


## [localStorage demo](https://javascript.info/localstorage#localstorage-demo)

The main features of `localStorage` are:

-   Shared between all tabs and windows from the same origin.
-   The data does not expire. It remains after the browser restart and even OS reboot.

For instance, if you run this code…

```javascript
localStorage.setItem('test', 1);
```

…And close/open the browser or just open the same page in a different window, then you can get it like this:

```javascript
alert( localStorage.getItem('test') ); // 1
```

We only have to be on the same origin (domain/port/protocol), the url path can be different.

The `localStorage` is shared between all windows with the same origin, so if we set the data in one window, the change becomes visible in another one.

...

## [sessionStorage](https://javascript.info/localstorage#sessionstorage)

The `sessionStorage` object is used much less often than `localStorage`.

Properties and methods are the same, but it’s much more limited:

-   The `sessionStorage` exists only within the current browser tab.
   -   Another tab with the same page will have a different storage.
   -   But it is shared between iframes in the same tab (assuming they come from the same origin).
-   The data survives page refresh, but not closing/opening the tab.

Let’s see that in action.

Run this code…

```javascript
sessionStorage.setItem('test', 1);
```

…Then refresh the page. Now you can still get the data:

```javascript
alert( sessionStorage.getItem('test') ); // after refresh: 1
```

…But if you open the same page in another tab, and try again there, the code above returns `null`, meaning “nothing found”.

That’s exactly because `sessionStorage` is bound not only to the origin, but also to the browser tab. For that reason, `sessionStorage` is used sparingly.